website/content/en/docs/cli/operator-sdk_create_api.md, before:

---
title: "operator-sdk create api"
---
## operator-sdk create api

Scaffold a Kubernetes API

### Synopsis

Scaffold a Kubernetes API by writing a Resource definition and/or a Controller.

If information about whether the resource and controller should be scaffolded
was not explicitly provided, it will prompt the user if they should be.

After the scaffold is written, the dependencies will be updated and
make generate will be run.


```
operator-sdk create api [flags]
```

### Examples

```
  # Create a frigates API with Group: ship, Version: v1beta1 and Kind: Frigate
  operator-sdk create api --group ship --version v1beta1 --kind Frigate

  # Edit the API Scheme

  nano api/v1beta1/frigate_types.go

  # Edit the Controller
  nano internal/controller/frigate/frigate_controller.go

  # Edit the Controller Test
  nano internal/controller/frigate/frigate_controller_test.go

  # Generate the manifests
  make manifests

  # Install CRDs into the Kubernetes cluster using kubectl apply
  make install

  # Regenerate code and run against the Kubernetes cluster configured by ~/.kube/config
  make run

```

### Options

```
      --controller           if set, generate the controller without prompting the user (default true)
      --force                attempt to create resource even if it already exists
      --group string         resource Group
  -h, --help                 help for api
      --kind string          resource Kind
      --make make generate   if true, run make generate after generating files (default true)
      --namespaced           resource is namespaced (default true)
      --plural string        resource irregular plural form
      --resource             if set, generate the resource without prompting the user (default true)
      --version string       resource Version
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --plugins strings   plugin keys to be used for this subcommand execution
      --verbose           Enable verbose logging
```

### SEE ALSO

* [operator-sdk create](../operator-sdk_create)	 - Scaffold a Kubernetes API or webhook

Commit message:

Upgrade kubebuilder scaffold from v4.2.0 to v4.5.2
Signed-off-by: Camila Macedo <7708031+camilamacedo86@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/en/docs/cli/operator-sdk_create_api.md, after:

---
title: "operator-sdk create api"
---
## operator-sdk create api

Scaffold a Kubernetes API

### Synopsis

Scaffold a Kubernetes API by writing a Resource definition and/or a Controller.

If information about whether the resource and controller should be scaffolded
was not explicitly provided, it will prompt the user if they should be.

After the scaffold is written, the dependencies will be updated and
make generate will be run.


```
operator-sdk create api [flags]
```

### Examples

```
  # Create a frigates API with Group: ship, Version: v1beta1 and Kind: Frigate
  operator-sdk create api --group ship --version v1beta1 --kind Frigate

  # Edit the API Scheme

  nano api/v1beta1/frigate_types.go

  # Edit the Controller
  nano internal/controller/frigate/frigate_controller.go

  # Edit the Controller Test
  nano internal/controller/frigate/frigate_controller_test.go

  # Generate the manifests
  make manifests

  # Install CRDs into the Kubernetes cluster using kubectl apply
  make install

  # Regenerate code and run against the Kubernetes cluster configured by ~/.kube/config
  make run

```

### Options

```
      --controller                   if set, generate the controller without prompting the user (default true)
      --external-api-domain string   Specify the domain name for the external API. This domain is used to generate accurate RBAC markers and permissions for the external resources (e.g., cert-manager.io).
      --external-api-path string     Specify the Go package import path for the external API. This is used to scaffold controllers for resources defined outside this project (e.g., github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager/pkg/apis/certmanager/v1).
      --force                        attempt to create resource even if it already exists
      --group string                 resource Group
  -h, --help                         help for api
      --kind string                  resource Kind
      --make make generate           if true, run make generate after generating files (default true)
      --namespaced                   resource is namespaced (default true)
      --plural string                resource irregular plural form
      --resource                     if set, generate the resource without prompting the user (default true)
      --version string               resource Version
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --plugins strings   plugin keys to be used for this subcommand execution
      --verbose           Enable verbose logging
```

### SEE ALSO

* [operator-sdk create](../operator-sdk_create)	 - Scaffold a Kubernetes API or webhook
